This is a Simple framework using Java and Cucumber.
Gherkin syntax is used to define cucumber feature files, they are concise and readable by any business users. They are also parameterized so some values might also be set at run time.
Scenarios were defined based on the inferences made after analysing the data that is currently being returned by the API. List of inferences can be found at the bottom of this ReadMe. 

Below is the skeleton of framework folder structure
  src
  |
  |
  ----test
  |     |
  |     ----------java
  |     |            | 
  |     |            |
  |     |            ---com 
		|				|
		|				|
		|				----test
		|				       |
		|					   |
		|					   --apiservice
		|								|
		|								|
		|								--endpoints : List of classes that encompass methods to send and receive from different api endpoints 
		|								--models : Data models for JSON request and responses. As the request and response objects in this case do not differe much used same data model for request and response. 
		|											Lombok annotations are used to mask or remove fields from request when not required.
		|								--step_definitions : List of cucumber step definitions 
		|								--utils : Hooks , some helper methods
		|							
		----------resources
						|
						|
						----features : has all the feature files manual and automated defined using Gherkin syntax
						---- Log and Cucumber properties files
  

All the dependencies are managed via Maven POM.xml
Made use of an existing reporting plugin cucumber-reporting to generate html reports, this will convert json generated by cucumber to a html report.
Made use of cucumber-picocontainers for state sharing between different step definition classes. 

**********************
****Prerequisites****:
**********************
- Make sure Java 11 is installed and JAVA_HOME environment variable set.
   Double check by running 'java -version' on command prompt or terminal.
- Make sure maven is installed, M2_HOME environment variable set and also added to PATH environment variable as %M2_HOME%\bin
   Double check by running 'mvn -version' on command prompt or terminal.

******************************
Instructions to build and run:
******************************
1. Loglevel can be altered from simplelogger.properties and can be defined to direct it to SystemOut or to a file.
     Currently set to INFO and directed to SystemOut.
2. unzip the project or download from GIThub link here : 
3. If running from an IDE, import the project to the IDE.
        - go to the terminal [if using a IDE like IntelliJ which supports terminal]
4. If running from outside an IDE, from command prompt cd to the folder where the project is unzipped. change directory i.e. cd to ChaseTest.
5. Once step 3 or 4 is done. Run below commands in sequence
        - mvn clean
        - mvn compile
        - mvn test -D "baseURL=https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com" 
    - The reports will be generated in target/cucumber-html-reports path relative to the project directory.
6. Open 'overview-features.html' in above folder to navigate through the features and scenario results.


******************************
Inferences 
******************************
Below inferences were drawn by exploring the API using postman.

- OPTIONS Http response on each endpoint indicates they support GET, HEAD, PUT, PATCH, POST and DELETE operations
- Data is locked down i.e. Unable to create , modify or delete any Users, Comments or Posts
- No data validations on any of the request fields i.e. a Post request can be made with an invalid userId i.e -1
- No Authentication. Also, both http and https seem to work
- API responses are being cached , "CF-CACHE-STATUS" header seem to indicate HIT or MISS. Response times are slightly longer as expected when the cache hit is a MISS. 
- The list of user emails in /comments response do not match any in /users response ; indicating that any user can make a comment on a post.




